A case or in this video we're going to be looking left joins.
And if you remember from before I left join is where it will retrieve all that data from table 1.
But only the matching data from Table 2.
So when the left join that matters which table you state first and which table you state second.
So we can write a query which uses a left going to join the customers and the Orders table.
We're going to be joining the two tables between the customer ID column in the Orders table and the
ID column in the Customers table but to show you an example of the importance of naming.
Table 1 and Table 2 in the left join.
I've actually had to break the link between customer id column in the Orders table and the customers
column in the ID table for ID equal to 1.
So you can see here that I've actually updated the orders table once a customer id equal to know where
the ID is equal to 1.
So for Order ID 1 we no longer have a customer ID and I did specifically for this video to show you
the difference between ordering Table 1 and Table 2 in the left join.
So if you want to post a video and write this update stateman you can do that and then you can follow
along with the select statement afterwards.
OK so you can see here I've selected the orders IDEI the customer's phone number and last name and the
order time for me on the table.
So to complete this left join query I'm going to type from orders by.
And then on the next line I'm going to type left join on the customers table and call that see.
And that's going to be all and all customer ID.
So the customer id call them and the orders table is going to be equal to the ID column in the Customers
table.
And then I'm just going to order the results by I do all the time
and I'm also going to limit the number of results to ten just so we only have 10.
Not too many results in our results.
And then I run this statement and you can see it's retrieved this data here.
So you can see the first line here.
We have all the time from the Order table and ID from the Orders table as well but we don't have any
information from the customers table.
And this is because in a left join it retrieves all the data from table 1.
So the orders table but it only retrieves matching data in table 2 which is the Customers table.
And because we did this up day we broke the link between customer ID 1 and ID 1 in the Orders table.
So the left join was not able to retrieve any data from the customers table for ID 1 but it did return
the orders data.
So the order time and the ID and that's because orders was Table 1 and customers was Table 2.
And to show you that this is truly going to run exactly the same select statement but I'm going to switch
Table 1 and Table 2 around.
So I'm going to make the customers table Table 1 and the orders table Table 2.
So let's do that now.
So I need to change the from orders to customers.
So from customers see Annie to do the left join on the orders table so borders.
And I also need to switch the order around in the on part.
So I need to say See ID is equal to to talk to a customer ID so I need to switch those two around as
well.
And then I can run this select statement where I've switched to one end table to around and just see
what we get in the results.
So you can see now from the results that the first ROI returned doesn't have an idea of 1 and that's
because customers is Table 1.
So the left join is trying to find data from the Customers table but it can't because we've broken the
link for ID one so it can't return any data or an ID one.
And it only returns matching data from the Orders table.
So we don't get the all the time and the ID field for for one because there was no data from the Customers
table.
But we do get the rest because there was data in the Customers table.
So this example shows the importance of getting Table 1 and table to correct when you are using left
joins.
So now we're ready to move on to right.
Joines.